build: cdi manual (#23069)
docker/docs: content/manuals/build/building/cdi.md

---
title: Container Device Interface (CDI)
weight: 60
description: Using CDI to access GPUs and other devices in your builds

> keywords: build, buildkit, buildx, guide, tutorial, cdi, device, gpu, nvidia, cuda, amd, rocm

Reviewer: Looks like vale may need to be taught some of these acronyms (`nvidia`, `coda` ..) or would it be because they're lowercase here?

Author: I think keywords should be excluded from Vale analysis

Reviewer 2: We need to revisit our Vale configuration to include a few more terms to the "allowlist". Yea, excluding metadata could be a good option.

    env:
    - FOO=injected
```

Inspecting the `default` builder will show that the `vendor1.com/device` is
detected as a device:

```console
$ docker buildx inspect
Name:   default
Driver: docker

Nodes:
Name:             default
Endpoint:         default
Status:           running
BuildKit version: v0.23.2
Platforms:        linux/amd64, linux/amd64/v2, linux/amd64/v3, linux/amd64/v4, linux/386
Labels:
 org.mobyproject.buildkit.worker.moby.host-gateway-ip: 172.17.0.1
Devices:
 Name:                  vendor1.com/device=foo
 Automatically allowed: false
GC Policy rule#0:
 All:            false
 Filters:        type==source.local,type==exec.cachemount,type==source.git.checkout
 Keep Duration:  48h0m0s
 Max Used Space: 658.9MiB
GC Policy rule#1:
 All:            false
 Keep Duration:  1440h0m0s
 Reserved Space: 4.657GiB
 Max Used Space: 953.7MiB
 Min Free Space: 2.794GiB
GC Policy rule#2:
 All:            false
 Reserved Space: 4.657GiB
 Max Used Space: 953.7MiB
 Min Free Space: 2.794GiB
GC Policy rule#3:
 All:            true
 Reserved Space: 4.657GiB
 Max Used Space: 953.7MiB
 Min Free Space: 2.794GiB
```

Now let's create a Dockerfile to use this device:

```dockerfile

> # syntax=docker.io/docker/dockerfile-upstream:1.17-labs

Author: Good point yeah we should use `docker/dockerfile:1-labs`

FROM busybox
RUN --device=vendor1.com/device \
  env | grep ^FOO=
```

Since [Dockerfile frontend v1.14.0-labs](../buildkit/dockerfile-release-notes.md#1140-labs),

> we can use the [`RUN --device` command](/reference/dockerfile.md#run---device)

Reviewer: I think we generally try to avoid the "royal 'we'", but that may require some changing (and perhaps less in the manuals section); probably fine for a follow-up.

to request a device during a build. In this case we set `vendor1.com/device`

> device name which will request the first device available in the specification.
> In this case it will be `foo`.

Reviewer: Perhaps something to correlate "first" with what was illustrated earlier in the manual;

```suggestion
device name which requests the first device available in the specification.
In this case it uses `foo`, which is the first device in our `/etc/cdi/foo.yaml`.
```

Now let's build this Dockerfile:

```console
$ docker buildx build .
docker buildx build .
[+] Building 0.4s (5/5) FINISHED                                                                                                                                                                docker:default
 => [internal] load build definition from Dockerfile                                                                                                                                                      0.0s 

>  => => transferring dockerfile: 155B                                                                                                                                                                      0.0s
>  => resolve image config for docker-image://docker.io/docker/dockerfile-upstream:1.17-labs                                                                                                                0.1s 
>  => CACHED docker-image://docker.io/docker/dockerfile-upstream:1.17-labs@sha256:9187104f31e3a002a8a6a3209ea1f937fb7486c093cbbde1e14b0fa0d7e4f1b5                                                          0.0s
>  => [internal] load metadata for docker.io/library/busybox:latest                                                                                                                                         0.1s 
>  => [internal] load .dockerignore                                                                                                                                                                         0.0s
>  => => transferring context: 2B                                                                                                                                                                           0.0s 

Reviewer: For some of these, it may make sense to also omit them, so that it's more clear what the relevant parts of the output are;

```suggestion
 => => transferring dockerfile: 155B                                                                                                                                                                      0.0s
 # ...
```

#3 CACHED

#4 [internal] load metadata for docker.io/library/busybox:latest
#4 DONE 0.1s

#5 [internal] load .dockerignore
#5 transferring context: 2B done
#5 DONE 0.0s

#6 [1/2] FROM docker.io/library/busybox:latest@sha256:f85340bf132ae937d2c2a763b8335c9bab35d6e8293f70f606b9c6178d84f42b
#6 CACHED

#7 [2/2] RUN --device=vendor1.com/device   env | grep ^FOO=
#7 0.155 FOO=injected
#7 DONE 0.2s
```

The build is successful and the output shows that the `FOO` environment variable
was injected into the build environment as specified in the CDI specification.

## Set up a container builder with GPU support

In this section, we will show you how to set up a [container builder](../builders/drivers/docker-container.md)
using NVIDIA GPUs. Since Buildx v0.22, when creating a new container builder, a
GPU request is automatically added to the container builder if the host has GPU
drivers installed in the kernel. This is similar to using [`--gpus=all` with the `docker run`](/reference/cli/docker/container/run.md#gpus)
command.

> [!NOTE]
> We made a specially crafted BuildKit image because the current BuildKit
> release image is based on Alpine that doesn’t support NVIDIA drivers. The

> > following image is based on Ubuntu and will install the NVIDIA client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> following image is based on Ubuntu and installs the NVIDIA client
```

> libraries and generate the CDI specification for your GPU in the container
> builder if a device is requested during a build. This image is temporarily
> hosted on Docker Hub under `crazymax/buildkit:v0.23.2-ubuntu-nvidia`.

Now let's create a container builder named `gpubuilder` using Buildx:

```console

> $ docker buildx create --name gpubuilder --driver-opt "image=crazymax/buildkit:v0.23.2-ubuntu-nvidia" --bootstrap

Reviewer: We probably want to have this somewhere more "official" I guess (not a blocker); how complicated is this image to build? Would it be an option to add the `Dockerfile` here (if it's just 2 .. 3 steps)?

Author: Yes it will be in the future, this is tracked in https://github.com/moby/buildkit/pull/5944.

> Would it be an option to add the `Dockerfile` here (if it's just 2 .. 3 steps)?

It's the BuildKit Dockerfile so not an option :sweat_smile:

...

#7 preparing device nvidia.com/gpu
#7 0.000 > apt-get update
...
#7 4.872 > apt-get install -y gpg
...
#7 10.16 Downloading NVIDIA GPG key
#7 10.21 > apt-get update
...
#7 12.15 > apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends nvidia-container-toolkit-base
...
#7 17.80 time="2025-04-15T08:58:16Z" level=info msg="Generated CDI spec with version 0.8.0"
#7 DONE 17.8s

#8 [2/2] RUN --device=nvidia.com/gpu nvidia-smi -L
#8 0.527 GPU 0: Tesla T4 (UUID: GPU-6cf00fa7-59ac-16f2-3e83-d24ccdc56f84)
#8 DONE 1.6s
```

As you might have noticed, the step `#7` is preparing the `nvidia.com/gpu`
device by installing client libraries and the toolkit to generate the CDI
specifications for the GPU.

The `nvidia-smi -L` command is then executed in the container using the GPU
device. The output shows the GPU UUID.

You can check the generated CDI specification within the container builder with
the following command:

```console
$ docker exec -it buildx_buildkit_gpubuilder0 cat /etc/cdi/nvidia.yaml
```

For the EC2 instance [`g4dn.xlarge`](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/g4/)
used here, it looks like this:

```yaml {collapse=true}

> ---

Reviewer: So; this probably is the cause 😆

In this section, we will show you how to set up a [container builder](../builders/drivers/docker-container.md)
using NVIDIA GPUs. Since Buildx v0.22, when creating a new container builder, a
GPU request is automatically added to the container builder if the host has GPU
drivers installed in the kernel. This is similar to using [`--gpus=all` with the `docker run`](/reference/cli/docker/container/run.md#gpus)
command.

> [!NOTE]
> We made a specially crafted BuildKit image because the current BuildKit
> release image is based on Alpine that doesn’t support NVIDIA drivers. The
> following image is based on Ubuntu and installs the NVIDIA client libraries
> and generates the CDI specification for your GPU in the container builder if
> a device is requested during a build. This image is temporarily hosted on
> Docker Hub under `crazymax/buildkit:v0.23.2-ubuntu-nvidia`.

> [!NOTE]
> If you are creating a container builder on WSL, you need to ensure that
> [Docker Desktop](../../desktop/_index.md) is installed and [WSL 2 GPU Paravirtualization](../../desktop/features/gpu.md#prerequisites)
> is enabled. Buildx v0.26+ is also required to mount the WSL libraries in the

> > container.

Author: Added this section related to https://github.com/docker/buildx/pull/3320

Author: Removed this part for now as this will happen in the next 0.27 milestone.
